### [1498.Number-of-Subsequences-That-Satisfy-the-Given-Sum-Condition](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-subsequences-that-satisfy-the-given-sum-condition)

#### Solution 1: Sort + Two Pointer

The question asks for subsequence which the max + min <= the target. Because it is sequence, the order of picking does not matter. For subarray, it must pick continuously. However, for subsequence, you can some some thing in the middle and pick something in the front. Because the question does not ask anything specific to the order and we can skip anything in the middle. So the order does not matter. 

Given the order not affecting, we are looking for the max and the min. We can sort the array so that we can easily to find the max and min. The question only check for the max and min the array. So once they are fixed. Anything in the middle can be picked and it also can be skipped. Because the array are sorted, none of elements in the middle can affect the max and the minimum. To find all the boundaries that satisfy left boundary + right boundary = target. We have at least two ways. 1) fix one end and perform binary search. This would give O(nlog(n)) solution. 2) two pointers. one pointer from the right and another from the right. If their sum > target, we can reduce the right pointer because all element are positive so we need reduce the larger of the two. Otherwise we find the satisfied boundaries we can calcualte and move the left boundary to the right for the next candidates. As the minimum is increasing, all the right side that does not satisfy num[left] + num[right] <= target would also voliate it for new num[left] after moving. This give O(n) solution. 

After the boundaries are located, as stated previously, all elements in the middle can be picked or skipped. So we have 2<sup>m</sup> ways to fill the middle from nothing to taking all of them. where m is the number of element between left boundary and right boundary (exclusive). As the  2<sup>m</sup> can be very large as m grows. We can preprocess it to store the 2<sup>m</sup> % MOD in an array to look up.
